---
layout: page
day: 1
title: Introduction
year: 2020
season: Spring
---
*Day 1 of \#50DAYSOFC++CHALLENGE*

# Simple Introduction To Coding

To understand this is in simple terms coding is basically giving instructions to the computer, computers understand what is known as machine language or binary language which is made up of zeros and ones (0 and 1). So you might be wondering how then can I write these instructions, well worry not here is were the concept of programming languages come in , a programming language in simpler terms is a language used by coders or programmers to give instructions to the computer in our case will be using C++,which will then be translated by a compiler to a computer from source code(program written by you) to object code (translated source code or 1s and 0s).

## What is C++?

Hey everyone here is a simple introduction to C++, well C++ is known as an extension to C language (another programming language) and was developed by Bjarne Stroustrup at bell labs. C++ is an intermediate level language, that is it comprises of a confirmation of both high level and low-level language features. It is an Object-Oriented Programming Language but not purely Object Oriented. That’s because its features like friend and virtual which violate some of the very important OOPS (Object Oriented Programming) features. Which kind of renders this language unworthy of being called object oriented, not bad though.

C++ is also compiled based language meaning in C++ source code (in simpler terms the program written by you to the computer) is compiled by compiler the executed.

## Why Use C++

Hey I guess you must be wondering why you should learn C++, well here is why,
C++ is one of the most popular programming languages which is awesome cause if you learning a popular programming language then basically you also become popular in coding industry..just kidding.

Variable can be declared anywhere in the program in C++, but must be declared before they are used (Variables for now just know that they are containers to store value eg a container to store your name).

We mentioned something about OOP which is okay if you don’t understand what it is ,will be covered in the near future nevertheless, all features in C++ such as Abstraction, Encapsulation, Inheritance etc makes it worthier and more useful for programmers.

C++ is fun and easily to learn so I guess you now see why we should learn it right?

### Application of C++

    1)Developing Games.
    2) Operating Systems.
    3) Compilers.
    4) Network Drivers.
    5)Interpreters.
    6) Database System.