---
layout: page
day: 2
title: Basic Syntax and Variables
sn: Spring
season: spring
year: 2020
---
*Day 2 of \#50daysofc++code challenge*
# Basic Syntax and Variables

Hey another day of coding today we are looking at syntax and variables in C++, and here’s what will learn.

```cpp
#include <iostream>
using namespace std;

int main ()
{
    return 0;
}
```

Above is basically what every program in C++ has, so yeah!! Finally, we are coding in C++, `iostream` in the above code stands for input and output stream and is also called a C++ library. `include` means to include a header file. `#` is called a preprocessor it actually includes the library of C++ into the program. The main is a function called entry point of any program in addition in a program there is only one function then it should be the main function.` return 0` means this function returns a value of 0.

```cpp
#include <iostream>
using namespace std;

int main ()
{
    cout << ”hello Zambia “;
    cout << ”enter your name”;
    cin  >> name;
    return 0;
}
```

`cout` is used to display information to our screen like in this program we are displaying **“hello Zambia”** to our screen. We also have `cin` which is used to collect an input from the user. For example, if we wanted to get student names from student users we would need to use `cin`. 

After `cin >>`, we have `name` well running the above program will give us an error well not bad we need it, we call this error a syntax error in our introduction we looked at programming languages these languages have grammatical rules we can say just like English. for example if you don’t add a semi-colon at the end of line of code (`cout<<”hello world” ;`) we get an error so now we know that just like we used full stop to end a sentence in English we use a semi-colon to end a line of code in C++. Back to the `name` issue, `name` is what we call a variable, this is actually a container that will be storing or holding a *name*. 

But from intro we also said variables must be declared so not declaring variables will result in syntax error. So, if we wanted to declare a variable to store a name of a person will write (`string name`), remember `name` is a container to hold a *name*